<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook V3.1-Based Variant V1.0//EN">
<book lang="en">
<bookinfo>
<title>The KReversi Handbook</title>
<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Mario</firstname>
<surname>Weilguni</surname>
</author>
</authorgroup>
<date>Version 0.6.5, 6 June 1998</date>
<releaseinfo><!-- information about this particular version --></releaseinfo>
<revhistory>
<revision>
<revnumber></revnumber>
<date></date>
</revision>
</revhistory>
<abstract>
<para>This documentation was last updated for kreversi version 0.6.5. Please make any comments and additions to the author.</para>
<para>KDE Reversi</para><!-- Merge this with the previous paragraph; it comes from <META NAME="description" CONTENT="..."> --></abstract>
<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>linux</keyword>
<keyword>game</keyword>
<keyword>reversi</keyword>
<keyword>othello</keyword>
</keywordset>
</bookinfo>
<chapter id="Introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>
<para>Reversi is a simple strategy game that is played by two players. 
There is only one type of piece - one side of it is black, the other white. If a player captures 
a piece on the board, that piece is turned and belongs to that player. The winner is the person 
that has more pieces of his own color on the board and if there are no more moves
possible.</para>
<sect1>
<title>Object of the game</title>
<para>The object of the game is to have the majority of your color discs on the board at the end of the game.</para>
</sect1>
<sect1>
<title>A Minute to Learn</title>
<para>A move consists of "outflanking" your opponent's disc(s), then flipping the 
outflanked disc(s) to your color.</para>
<para>To outflank means to place a disc on the board so that your opponent's row (or rows) of 
disc(s) is bordered at each end by a disc of your color. </para>
</sect1>
</chapter>
<chapter id="Rulesofthegame">
<title>Rules of the game</title>
<para><itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Black always moves first.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>If on your turn you cannot outflank and flip at least one opposing disc, your turn is 
forfeited and your opponent moves again. However, if a move is available to you, 
you may not forfeit your turn.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>A disc may outflank any number of discs in one or more rows in any number of 
directions at the same time - horizontally, vertically or diagonally. 
(A row is defined as one or more discs in a continuous straight line). </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>You may not skip over your own color disc to outflank an opposing disc.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Discs may only be outflanked as a direct result of a move and must fall 
in the direct line of the disc placed down.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>All discs outflanked in any one move must be flipped, even if it is to the 
player's advantage not to flip them.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>A player who flips a disc which should not have been turned may correct the 
mistake as long as the opponent has not made a subsequent move. If the opponent has 
already moved, it is too late to change and the disc(s) remain as is.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Once a disc is placed on a square, it can never be moved to another square later in the game.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>If a player runs out of discs, but still has an opportunity to outflank an opposing 
disc on his or her turn, the opponent must give the player a disc to use. 
(This can happen as many times as the player needs and can use a disc).</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>When it is no longer possible for either player to move, the game is over. 
Discs are counted and the player with the majority of his or her color disc's on 
the board is the winner. </para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<emphasis remap="bf">NOTE</emphasis>: It is possible for a game to end before all 64 squares are filled.</para>
</chapter>
<chapter id="StrategyHints">
<title>Strategy Hints</title>
<para><itemizedlist>
<listitem>
<para>Try to put pieces on the edges whenever possible. Your opponent can not outflank these pieces. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Avoid putting pieces on one of the three neighbor fields of an corner unless 
you are absolutly sure that your opponent will not be able to put a piece on an corner.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Sometimes it is better to offer some pieces to your opponent. </para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Try to put pieces on fields which prevent your opponent from moving.</para>
</listitem>
<listitem>
<para>Try to force your opponent to put a piece in a neighbor field of an corner. </para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>
</para>
</chapter>
<chapter id="Epilogue">
<title>Epilogue</title>
<sect1>
<title>Developers</title>
<para><literal remap="tt">Mario Weilguni</literal></para>
<para><literal remap="tt">Mats Luthman</literal> - Designer of the move engine</para>
</sect1>
<sect1>
<title>Authors</title>
<para><literal remap="tt">Mario Weilguni</literal></para>
<para><literal remap="tt"><ulink url="mailto:rwilliams@kde.org">Robert Williams</ulink></literal> - Editor</para>
</sect1>
<sect1>
<title>Copyright</title>
<para>kreversi is released under the GPL License.</para>
</sect1>
</chapter>
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
mode: sgml
sgml-omittag: nil
sgml-shorttag: t
End:
-->